.\" $Id$
.TH ANSI2KNR 1 "9 September 1998" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
ansi2knr \- convert ANSI C to Kernighan & Ritchie C
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBansi2knr\fR [\fB--filename\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fIinput_file\fR [\fIoutput_file\fR]]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB--filename\fR provides the file name for the #line directive in the output,
overriding \fIinput_file\fR (if present).
.sp
If no \fIinput_file\fR is supplied, input is read from stdin.
.sp
If no \fIoutput_file\fR is supplied, output goes to stdout.
.sp
There are no error messages.
.sp
\fBansi2knr\fR
recognizes function definitions by seeing a non-keyword identifier at the left
margin, followed by a left parenthesis, with a right parenthesis as the last
character on the line, and with a left brace as the first token on the
following line (ignoring possible intervening comments).  It will recognize a
multi-line header provided that no intervening line ends with a left or right
brace or a semicolon.  These algorithms ignore whitespace and comments, except
that the function name must be the first thing on the line.
.sp
The following constructs will confuse it:
.br
     - Any other construct that starts at the left margin and follows the
above syntax (such as a macro or function call).
.br
     - Some macros that tinker with the syntax of the function header.
.sp
The --varargs switch is obsolete, and is recognized only for
backwards compatibility.  The present version of
\fBansi2knr\fR
will always attempt to convert a ... argument to va_alist and va_dcl.
.SH AUTHOR
L. Peter Deutsch <ghost@aladdin.com> wrote the original ansi2knr and
continues to maintain the current version; most of the code in the current
version is his work.  ansi2knr also includes contributions by Francois
Pinard <pinard@iro.umontreal.ca> and Jim Avera <jima@netcom.com>.
